Abstract

This text seeks to investigate the relationship between technology and humans in the process of the becoming of the individual. Central questions are: what are the conditions that form this process; how does design form our relationship with technology; how can technology be designed so that it facilitates the process of the becoming of the individual?

Divided into three parts, wherein PART ONE outlines two theories: Gilbert Simondon’s concept of "individuation" and Matthew Crawford’s argument on the necessary conditions for the becoming of the individual. For Simondon the individual is a continual process and for Crawford this process is dependent on acquiring skills and gaining competence. The way in which we do that is through and with technology, and so it follows that in order to gain competence and skill, the relationship between technology and humans needs to be a collaborative and reciprocal one. PART TWO makes an analysis of the dominant designs of technology and makes the case that it is applied through a consumer ethic, placing the designer/creator at one end, and the consumer at the other. In so doing we become tools of technology, rather than establishing a reciprocal relation, thereby obstructing the process of the becoming of the individual. Drawing upon the two theories, PART THREE outlines designs of technology and methodologies which facilitate the process of the becoming of the individual, aiming at a deeper and more integrated relationship between humans and technology. The methodologies discussed in PART THREE are Speculative Art and Design which offer a space to be able to imagine and co-create possible futures and in that process reflect on what we are doing. The ethos of hacking and open design is discussed, where hacking is the practice of re-purposing existing designs of systems or objects in ways more precisely tailored to the users needs. It is an approach which facilitates the ingenuity to expand the potential of what has been created, by enabling the end user to be part of the process, and not only on the receiving end of it. Open Design, which is essentially about the concept of sharing, means that the user can take what is given, make alterations according to their needs, transform it and redistribute it to others. In this way it offers various entry points to technological engagement through which theoretical understanding can emerge. Lastly, a series of workshops that entail technological engagement and function to transform technologies as political practices are discussed.
